Our breaking news this
weekend that IDF forces
recovered the bodies of six hostages,
including 23 year old
Israeli American Hirsh Goldberg.
Pulling it all
been murdered in a tunnel in Gaza.
His story became one of the most
well known, in part
because of the tireless efforts
of his two parents,
Rachel Goldberg and John Poland,
to advocate for their son, Hirsh,
and all the other hostages.
We warn you,
some of the video
you're about to see is graphic.
Five days after the October 7th massacre
at the Nova music
Festival site,
an Israeli
soldier showed me a disturbing video
of a young Israeli man
with his left hand blown off,
being kidnaped,
loaded into a pickup truck.
I didn't know who he was,
but four days later, by coincidence,
I interviewed John Poland
and Rachel Goldberg
for the first time on CNN.
When I turned on my phone,
which I don't normally
use on the Jewish Sabbath,
that's when I saw
two texts
pop up at eight, ten,
eight, 11 in the morning.
The first one said, I love you.
And the second one said, I'm sorry.
And immediately I knew something
horrible must have been happening
or was about to happen.
I didn't know they were
the parents of the young man
I'd seen in that video,
until John said
this during our interview.
And we know from three
eyewitness accounts of survivors
that basically,
there were at least 11 grenades
thrown into the bomb shelter.
Our son, by all accounts,
officer of the witnesses,
had his left arm blown off
at some point during the attack.
That's when I realized
I'd seen their son.
And they had no idea
the video of him
being taken hostage existed.
I waited till
the interview was over and called them
and then sent them the video I had.
I met with them a week later.
First of all, it's it's
a crazy sequence of events
that we talked to you
through a computer screen
and then get a phone
call from you saying,
I have a video of your son.
I didn't want to say on live television,
which is so appreciated.
Of course,
the way everything has unfolded,
the gentleness that you used.
Because at the end of the day,
you're a journalist and journalists
want a story.
And that could have been
dealt with in many other ways
that were not kind and gentle.
Seeing that video in general
gave us a dose of optimism.
How were you able to
get through each day?
I personally feel like
we have to keep running
to the end of the earth to save him,
and we have to try to
go believing that somehow
he got treatment and he's there.
They showed me Hirsch's room,
which Rachel would visit
to feel close to him.
We have reports that face himself,
and I went out Friday night
and it was like screaming to him
and hoping him just because Friday night,
you know,
we bless our children
traditionally in Jewish homes.
You bless your children on Friday night.
So I was screaming.
It's a traditional blessing for us.
The Bible, what is the blessing today?
It says, May God bless you and keep you.
May God
may God's face shine upon
you and be gracious to you.
May God's countenance countenance be lift
up to lifted up towards you,
and give you peace.
In the weeks after Rachel
and John worked tirelessly
to raise awareness about Hirsch
and the other hostages, Richard would.
You're wearing,
a tag that says 26.
Don't tell people what that is.
Well, this morning I realized,
you know what?
It's day 26,
and I
don't know if anyone is really counting.
I don't know how many people really care
every single day
until these people come home.
I'm going to be where and what day it is.
So this is my new.
Fashion statement.
The weeks turned into months.
This was them in April.
We're living on another planet,
so I don't know that we comprehend time
the way that you do.
Or normal people.
We feel that everybody has failed
our leaders.
All of them have failed to make
this suffering on all sides.
Stop.
we feel that we as parents have failed
because as a parent, your job is to
keep your children safe.
It feels good.
But then suddenly,
a few weeks later,
Hamas released
this hostage video of Hirsch.
It was the first proof his parents had.
He was alive.
We were sobbing, tears and emotional,
overwhelmed feelings were just
abounding.
we weren't even listening
to what he was saying.
Just hearing his voice
and seeing him moving
and that he was alive.
Then in late June,
another video
was released by the hostages
and missing families, for
this one taken on October 7th.
Moments after the first video
I'd sent them ended.
You had so much concern about,
you know,
whether Hirsch had made it out
just from his injury alone.
you see a tourniquet
being put on at later on in the video?
That.
I mean,
do you think
that probably saved his life?
Well, I'm happy that
for whatever reasons, that
he was obviously treated because,
as we all know,
on day 201,
we had a video released that shows Hirsch
with a stump
where that jagged bone had been.
But we know from day 201,
thank God that he is alive.
129 days later,
that hope became heartbreak.
On day 330, Hirsch Goldberg Poland's
body was found with five other hostages.
Alexander Loeb in off
Carmel, got Almog Suruchi,
Adin Yerushalmi, and Ori Danilo.
Israel says they were executed
in a tunnel in Gaza,
shot to death at close range.
According to the Israeli
prime Minister's office,
there believed to be about 101 hostages
still remaining in Gaza,
35 are believed to be dead.
Short time ago,
I spoke with Orna and Ronen Neutra,
whose son Omer is another
Israeli American still
being held captive.
Orna Ronen, thank you for
talking with me today.
I know you consider John
Poland and Rachel
Goldberg, Poland family.
How are you dealing with what's happened?
We are completely devastated, Anderson.
This shouldn't have happened.
Hirsch was supposed to come out
in the first phase of a deal
that's been on the table for a long time
now, and it's just completely outrageous
and devastating
that this is what happened.
Hirsch managed
to survive in the 11 most terrible months
with the monsters
of, of of Hamas in Gaza,
and yet was murdered
and executed a couple of days ago
in a most brutal way.
It just heartbreaking.
Rachel, yesterday, at the funeral said,
that that she hopes
that that Hirsch's death will be
what she called a turning point
in this horrible situation.
And, and John said maybe, just maybe,
your death, meaning
Hirsch's death is the stone,
the fuel that will bring home
the remaining 101 hostages.
Do you think that's possible?
Do you feel like
something may be different
now for for Omer and the others?
You know, it's it's not a clear path.
we're seeing still many challenges,
in the region.
We're seeing a prime minister,
that is not willing to make
the compromises
needed to reach a deal
to bring our son
and the other hostages back.
We sure see, the Israeli
public pouring in big numbers
into the streets
and telling the Israeli government that
this event of the six hostages
that were murdered
few days back,
it just unacceptable
that this will continue.
And we just hoping that this
outpour outrage that,
we see in Israel is going to affect
the government
and Bibi Netanyahu himself to,
to reach that so desired deal
and get the hostages
back, as we know, this is urgent.
And among them are 22 year old son,
who, by the way, turns 23 on October 14th
and this will be his second birthday,
being held hostage.
A very true, true.
It's hard to think about that.
No, we can't think that far.
And we really hope that that, a deal,
that the US government is working
so hard
with the partners in the region
will be caught between Israel and Hamas
and the two leaders,
Hamas leader and Israeli, government
must reach that deal,
or else we
won't see our deal once coming back.
Do you have faith on unthinkable
in in the prime minister, in Netanyahu,
he asked for forgiveness
that the six murdered hostages
weren't brought back alive.
He also said
Hamas will pay a heavy price for this.
Do you think he has the hostages
front and center in his priorities?
Well, we don't, unfortunately not.
we met him in the white House
with President Biden.
We looked him in the eyes
and unfortunately,
our feeling
is that he has his own political future
ahead of him
rather than the safety of our son.
It's not just our son.
I don't believe that he has the interest
of the Israeli people,
as his top priority.
anyone you know that's looking at
this can see that
Israelis need the hostages
to come home
for them to be able to recover from this,
to move forward.
But the first step
would be to bring the hostages back to
to make the families
whole, to,
bring back some sense of security. Right.
This was a breach
between the Israeli
government and its people,